AWS deploy page (#912)
withastro/docs: src/pages/en/guides/deploy/aws.md

### CloudFront functions setup

Unfortunately, CloudFront does not support multi-page `sub-folder/index` routing by default. To configure it, we will use cloudfront functions to point the request to the desired object in S3.

1. Create a new cloudFront function with the following code snippet. You can find cloudfront functions in **CloudFront > Functions**.

  ```js
    function handler(event) {
    var request = event.request;
    var uri = request.uri;
    
    // Check whether the URI is missing a file name.
    if (uri.endsWith('/')) {
        request.uri += 'index.html';
    } 
    // Check whether the URI is missing a file extension.
    else if (!uri.includes('.')) {
        request.uri += '/index.html';
    }

    return request;
  }
  ```
  2. Attach your function to the CloudFront distribution. You can find this option in your cloudfront distribution's settings > Behaviors > Edit > Function associations.
        * **Viewer request - Function type:** Cloudfront Function.
        * **Viewer request - Function ARN:** Select the function you created in the previous step.

## Continuous deployment with GitHub Actions

> 

Reviewer: Maybe this as an introduction to this section?

```suggestion

There are many ways to set up continuous deployment for AWS. One possibility for code hosted on GitHub is to use a [GitHub Action](https://github.com/features/actions) to deploy your website every time you push a commit.

Add this sample workflow to your repository at `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` and push it to GitHub. You will need to add `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `BUCKET_ID`, and `DISTRIBUTION_ID` as “secrets” to your repository on GitHub under **Settings** > **Secrets** > **Actions**. Click <kbd>New repository secret</kbd> to add each one.

```

---
title: Deploy your Astro Site to AWS
description: How to deploy your Astro site to the web using AWS.
layout: ~/layouts/DeployGuideLayout.astro
---

[AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/) is a full-featured web app hosting platform that can be used to deploy an Astro site.

> Deploying your project to AWS requires using the [AWS console](https://aws.amazon.com/console/). (Most of these actions can also be done using the [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/)). This guide will walk you through the steps to deploy your site to AWS from the most basic method then adding more services on top to improve cost efficiency and performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploying your project to AWS requires using the [AWS console](https://aws.amazon.com/console/). (Most of these actions can also be done using the [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/)). This guide will walk you through the steps to deploy your site to AWS starting with the most basic method. Then, you can add additional services to improve cost efficiency and performance.
```

## S3 static website hosting

S3 is the starting point of any application. It is where your project files and other assets are stored. S3 charges for file storage and number of requests. You can find more information about S3 in the [AWS documentation](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/).

1. Create an S3 bucket with your project's name.

    :::tip
    The bucket name should be globally unique. We recommend a combination of your project name and the domain name of your site.
    :::

2. Disable **"Block all public access"**. By default, AWS sets all buckets to be private. To make it public, you need to uncheck the "Block public access" checkbox in the bucket's properties.

> 3. Upload your built files located in `dist` to S3. You can do this manually in the console or use the AWS CLI. If you use the AWS CLI, you can use the following command after [authenticating with your AWS credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Upload your built files located in `dist` to S3. You can do this manually in the console or use the AWS CLI. If you use the AWS CLI, you can use the following command after [authenticating with your AWS credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html):
```
Just to be consistent with the colon used below!

    ```
    aws s3 cp dist/ s3://<BUCKET_NAME>/ --recursive
    ```

4. Update your bucket policy to allow public access. You can find this setting in the bucket's **Permissions > Bucket policy**.

    ```json
    {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [
        {
          "Sid": "PublicReadGetObject",
          "Effect": "Allow",
          "Principal": "*",
          "Action": "s3:GetObject",
          "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<BUCKET_NAME>/*"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

    :::caution
    Do not forget to replace `<BUCKET_NAME>` with the name of your bucket.
    :::

5. Enable website hosting for your bucket. You can find this setting in the bucket's **Settings > Static website hosting**. Set your index document to `index.html` and your error document to `404.html`. Finally, you can find your new website URL in the bucket's **Settings > Static website hosting**.

    :::note

>     If you are deploying a single-page application (SPA) set your error document to `index.html`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If you are deploying a single-page application (SPA), set your error document to `index.html`.
```
Comma nit!

    ```
    aws s3 cp dist/ s3://<BUCKET_NAME>/ --recursive
    ```

3. Update your bucket policy to allow **CloudFront Access**. You can find this setting in the bucket's **Permissions > Bucket policy**. 

    ```json
    {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [{
        "Effect": "Allow",
        "Principal": {
          "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::cloudfront:user/CloudFront Origin Access Identity <CLOUDFRONT_OAI_ID>"
        },
        "Action": "s3:GetObject",
        "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::astro-aws/*"
      }]
    }
    ```

    :::caution
    Do not forget to replace `<CLOUDFRONT_OAI_ID>` with the name of your CloudFront Origin Access Identity ID. You can find the CloudFront Origin Access Identity ID in **CloudFront > Origin access identities** after setting up CloudFront.
    :::

### CloudFront setup

1. Create a CloudFront distribution with the following values:
    * **Origin domain:** Your S3 bucket

>     * **S3 bucket access:** "Yes use OAI (bucket can restric access to only CloudFront)"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * **S3 bucket access:** "Yes use OAI (bucket can restrict access to only CloudFront)"
```

    * **Viewer - Bucket policy:** "No, I will update the bucket policy"
    * **Viewer protocol policy:** "Redirect to HTTPS"
    * **Default root object:** `index.html`

This configuration will block access to your S3 bucket from the public internet and serve your site using the global CDN network. You can find your CloudFront distribution URL in the bucket's **Distributions > Domain name**.

### CloudFront Functions setup

Unfortunately, CloudFront does not support multi-page `sub-folder/index` routing by default. To configure it, we will use CloudFront Functions to point the request to the desired object in S3.

1. Create a new CloudFront function with the following code snippet. You can find CloudFront functions in **CloudFront > Functions**.

    ```js
    function handler(event) {
      var request = event.request;
      var uri = request.uri;

      // Check whether the URI is missing a file name.
      if (uri.endsWith('/')) {
        request.uri += 'index.html';
      } 
      // Check whether the URI is missing a file extension.
      else if (!uri.includes('.')) {
        request.uri += '/index.html';
      }

      return request;
    }
    ```

>   2. Attach your function to the CloudFront distribution. You can find this option in your CloudFront distribution's settings > Behaviors > Edit > Function associations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  2. Attach your function to the CloudFront distribution. You can find this option in your CloudFront distribution's **Settings > Behaviors > Edit > Function** associations.
```
Just checking in case you want this bold, since you've tended to bold these paths before!

        * **Viewer request - Function type:** CloudFront Function.
        * **Viewer request - Function ARN:** Select the function you created in the previous step.

## Continuous deployment with GitHub Actions

> There are many ways to set up continuous deployment for AWS. One possibility for code hosted on GitHub is to use a [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) to deploy your website every time you push a commit.

Reviewer: Remove “a” as “Actions” is plural:

```suggestion
There are many ways to set up continuous deployment for AWS. One possibility for code hosted on GitHub is to use [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) to deploy your website every time you push a commit.
```

> 1. Create a new policy in your AWS account using [IAM](https://aws.amazon.com/iam/) with the following permissions. This policy will allow you to upload build files to your S3 bucket and invalidate the CloudFront distribution files when you push a commit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a new policy in your AWS account using [IAM](https://aws.amazon.com/iam/) with the following permissions. This policy will allow you to upload built files to your S3 bucket and invalidate the CloudFront distribution files when you push a commit.
```
I'm not sure this is wrong, and you might mean "build" files, but you've previously used "built" (has been built) files. So, just pointing this out!

    ```yaml
    name: Deploy Website

    on:
      push:
        branches:
          - main

    jobs:
      deploy:
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        steps:
          - name: Checkout
            uses: actions/checkout@v3
          - name: Configure AWS Credentials
            uses: aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials@v1
            with:
              aws-access-key-id: ${{ secrets.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}
              aws-secret-access-key: ${{ secrets.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}
              aws-region: us-east-1
          - name: Install modules
            run: npm ci
          - name: Build application
            run: npm run build
          - name: Deploy to S3
            run: aws s3 sync ./dist/ s3://${{ secrets.BUCKET_ID }}
          - name: Create CloudFront invalidation
            run: aws cloudfront create-invalidation --distribution-id ${{ secrets.DISTRIBUTION_ID }} --paths "/*"
    ```

    :::note

>     Your BUCKET_ID is the name of your S3 bucket. Your DISTRIBUTION_ID is your CloudFront distribution ID. You can find your CloudFront distribution  ID in **CloudFront > Distributions > ID**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Your `BUCKET_ID` is the name of your S3 bucket. Your `DISTRIBUTION_ID` is your CloudFront distribution ID. You can find your CloudFront distribution  ID in **CloudFront > Distributions > ID**
```
Again, just pointing out that you've styled these as code before, so maybe you want to also do so here!

---
title: Deploy your Astro Site to AWS
description: How to deploy your Astro site to the web using AWS.
layout: ~/layouts/DeployGuideLayout.astro
---

[AWS](https://cloud.google.com/) is a full-featured web app hosting platform that can be used to deploy an Astro site.

## How to deploy

Deploying your project to AWS requires using the [AWS console](https://aws.amazon.com/console/). (Most of these actions can also be done using the [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/)). This guide will walk you through the steps to deploy your site to AWS from the most basic method then adding more services on top to improve cost efficiency and performance.

### S3 Bucket

> S3 is the starting point of any application. It is where your proyect files and other assets are stored. S3 charges for file storage and number requests. You can find more information about S3 in the [AWS documentation](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/).

Reviewer: Couple of small typos here:

```suggestion
S3 is the starting point of any application. It is where your project files and other assets are stored. S3 charges for file storage and number of requests. You can find more information about S3 in the [AWS documentation](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/).
```

1. Create an S3 bucket with your project's name.

> :::note
> The bucket name should be globally unique. We recommend combination of your project name and the domain name of your site.
> :::

Reviewer: If you indent this, it will be parsed as part of step 1 and nested accordingly.

```suggestion
    :::note
    The bucket name should be globally unique. We recommend combination of your project name and the domain name of your site.
    :::
```

2. Disable "Block all public access". By default, AWS sets all buckets to be private. To make it public, you need to unchecked the "Block public access" checkbox in the bucket's properties.

3. Upload your built files located in `dist` to S3. You can do this manually in the console or use the AWS CLI. If you use the AWS CLI, you can use the following command. 

>   ```
>   aws s3 cp dist/ s3://<BUCKET_NAME>/ --recursive
>   ```
> 
> :::note
> Do not forget to replace `<BUCKET_NAME>` with the name of your bucket and to authenticate your CLI with your AWS credentials.
> :::

Reviewer: Same here with the indentation: 

```suggestion
    ```
    aws s3 cp dist/ s3://<BUCKET_NAME>/ --recursive
    ```

    :::note
    Do not forget to replace `<BUCKET_NAME>` with the name of your bucket and to authenticate your CLI with your AWS credentials.
    :::
```

> 4. Update your bucket policy to allow public access. You can find this setting in bucket's Permissions > Bucket policy.

Reviewer: I’d add a “the” here. And what do you think about bolding the Amazon UI elements?

```suggestion
4. Update your bucket policy to allow public access. You can find this setting in the bucket's **Permissions > Bucket policy**.
```

Reviewer: We’ve also used `<kbd>` elements in some places, e.g. https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/deploy/netlify/#website-ui-deployment so maybe that could make sense if you click first <kbd>Permissions</kbd>, then <kbd>Bucket Policy</kbd>?

```suggestion
4. Update your bucket policy to allow public access. You can find this setting in the bucket's <kbd>Permissions</kbd> > <kbd>Bucket policy</kbd>.
```

    ```json
    {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [
        {
          "Sid": "PublicReadGetObject",
          "Effect": "Allow",
          "Principal": "*",
          "Action": "s3:GetObject",
          "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<BUCKET_NAME>/*"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

> 5. Enable website hosting for your bucket. You can find this setting in the bucket's Settings > "Static website hosting". Set your index document to `index.html` and your error document to `404.html`. You can find your new website URL in the bucket's Settings > "Static website hosting".

Reviewer: Same here, you could consider using bold or `<kbd>` elements to highlight the UI elements the users will click on.

Author: good idea 🫶
```suggestion
5. Enable website hosting for your bucket. You can find this setting in the bucket's **Settings > Static website hosting**. Set your index document to `index.html` and your error document to `404.html`. You can find your new website URL in the bucket's Settings > "Static website hosting".
```

> You Astro site is now deployed to AWS if you would like to configure a custom domain name for your site read the next section [Route 53](#route-53). 

Reviewer: Tiny tweaks:

```suggestion
Your Astro site is now deployed to AWS. If you would like to configure a custom domain name for your site, read the next section [Route 53](#route-53). 
```

    aws s3 cp dist/ s3://<BUCKET_NAME>/ --recursive
    ```

    :::caution

>     Do not forget to replace `<BUCKET_NAME>` with the name of your bucket and to authenticate your CLI with your AWS credentials.

Author: great idea, I was thinking about moving the callout to the end so it can be applied to both placeholders.
